Researchers from different Canadian institutions, including McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, gathered data from 41 studies that studied the association between saturated fat intake and health outcomes. Saturated fats which are found in animal products such as butter, eggs and salmon make up for no more than 10% of daily calories.

Few nutritional topics have been buzzier in recent years than fats – but according to a new study in the British Medical Journal, while trans fats are still as bad as we all thought, saturated fats aren’t linked to an increased risk of death and heart disease.

That doesn’t mean, however, that saturated fats now get a green light.de Souza points out that many people who try to cut back on saturated fats tend to substitute them with less healthy fats like those from margarine or with carbohydrates, which can contribute to heart disease.

For trans-fats, between one and six prospective cohort studies were identified for each association and were pooled.

“I tell my own patients to eat wholefoods and consume more fats from olive oil, nuts and fish, for which there is good evidence heart attack and stroke are reduced”.

Saturated fat has been demonised but some found in full fat yogurt and cheese may actually be beneficial in reducing Type 2 diabetes. The problem with studies looking at one part of people’s diets (in this case, saturated fat or trans fat) is that the rest of their lifestyle may also have a big impact on their health.

For years, federal dietary guidelines advised Americans to limit their total fat intake to no more than 30% or 35% of daily calories.

Until they do, feel free to adopt the AHA’s following advice to lower trans fat consumption – although who knows, things could change again.

A new official regulation in the US has put a ban on trans-fats and companies are now forced to completely give up the ingredient until 2018.

With the data they had the team couldn’t confirm a link between trans fats and type 2 diabetes, and did not identify a clear association between trans fat and ischaemic stroke. In addition, a diet high in artificial trans fats is linked to an 18 percent increase in a person’s chance of dying from the effects of coronary heart disease. However, experts caution against considering saturated fats completely in the clear. They also come from some plants such as palms oils and chocolate.

“The intense focus on reducing saturated fat over all other components of the diet has not taken us where we want to go”, Ludwig said.

Dr Louis Levy, Head of Nutrition Science at Public Health England, said of the report’s findings on higher levels of saturated fat: “Trans fats are harmful to health but in the UK consumption is already well within recommended levels and falling”.