HAVEN, Wis. -- Tiger Woods is perhaps one day away from completing the worst season of his professional career.

A 75 on Thursday during the opening round of the PGA Championship at Whistling Straits leaves him fighting to make the cut on Friday and puts him in danger of missing three consecutive cuts in major championships.A poor putting day also left Woods looking at the possibility that his 2014-15 season will end with no top-10 finishes in just 11 starts. Next week's Wyndham Championship is the last regular-season event on the PGA Tour, and Woods has not qualified for the FedEx Cup playoffs.

Woods is tied for 102nd as the first round of the PGA Championship continues; the top 70 and ties advance for the final 36 holes.

"Season or year? Because the season is pretty much over very soon," Woods said. "But the year's not. I still can do things overseas . . . I have my tournament down in the Bahamas [the Hero World Challenge]. There's plenty of golf to be played globally. So the season . . . is what it is, but [in the] calendar year, I still have a lot of golf left."

Woods is 186th in the FedEx Cup standings and needs to be among the top 125 after next week's Wyndham Championship in Greensboro, North Carolina. He had hinted two weeks ago that he might consider adding the event if he could qualify for the playoffs, but a missed cut this week would mean he'd all but have to win in Greensboro.

The deadline for committing to the tournament is Friday after play concludes.

Woods is looking at missing the FedEx Cup playoffs for the third time in five years. He also failed to qualify in 2011 and 2014.

Where he plays next is unclear, although it is likely that his next event would be the Frys.com Open, which runs Oct. 15-18. That is the 2015-16 season opener. Woods might also consider playing overseas, and he also has his Hero World Challenge event in early December.

"If I play well, I play well and I'll play more events," Woods said Tuesday. "If I don't, then I have more time to practice and get ready for the following events, for the next season and obviously some of the things I do on a global level."Thursday was more of what has been plaguing Woods all season: the inability to put it all together. He hit the ball well enough to score -- although he was sloppy with some iron play -- but couldn't putt.

"I've had good putting rounds and I had bad striking days on those days and then the flip side of it," he said. "So, just got to get a combo right and then have it for three more days."

Woods started decently enough Thursday, hitting his first seven greens in regulation (he began at the 10th hole) although he was 1 over par due to a 3-putt at the 14th green. He ended up making just two birdies.

He hit 7 of 14 fairways on the Pete Day-designed layout and 12 of 18 greens but required 33 putts.

"I hit it great today, but I made actually nothing," said Woods, who is nine shots behind leader Dustin Johnson. "Probably one of the worst putting rounds I've had in a very long time. But I hit it good today, so that's about it."

In 10 previous events, Woods has missed three cuts and one withdrawal. His best finish was a tie for 17th at the Masters. He tied for 18th two weeks ago at the Quicken Loans National.